[rfc][docs] Consolidate technical details of runtime version documentation into expo-updates SDK doc (#31554)
expo/expo: docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/updates.mdx

</Collapsible>

## Configuration

> There are various build-time configuration options that control the behavior of the library. For most apps, these configuration values should be set in the [app config](/workflow/configuration/) under the [`updates` property](/versions/latest/config/app/#updates).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are build-time configuration options that control the behavior of the library. For most apps, these configuration values are set in the [app config](/workflow/configuration/) under the [`updates` property](/versions/latest/config/app/#updates).
```

| `updates.codeSigningCertificate`                            | (none)   | <NoIcon />  | `EXUpdatesCodeSigningCertificate` | `expo.modules.updates.CODE_SIGNING_CERTIFICATE`                  | `codeSigningCertificate` |
| `updates.codeSigningMetadata`                               | (none)   | <NoIcon />  | `EXUpdatesCodeSigningMetadata`    | `expo.modules.updates.CODE_SIGNING_METADATA`                     | `codeSigningMetadata`    |
| `updates.assetPatternsToBeBundled`                          | (none)   | <NoIcon />  | N/A                               | N/A                                                              | N/A                      |

The two core required configuration options are:

- [`updates.url`](/versions/latest/config/app/#updates): the URL at which the library fetches remote updates
- [`runtimeVersion`](/versions/latest/config/app/#runtimeversion): a [runtime version](#runtime-version)

These are configured automatically when following the EAS Update [Get started](/eas-update/getting-started/) guide.

#### Runtime version

> Each time you build a binary for your app it includes the native code present at the time of the build as well as native configuration, and this unique combination is represented by a unique string called a runtime version. A remote update targets one runtime version, indicating that only binaries with a matching runtime version can load the remote update.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each time you build a binary for your app it includes the native code present at the time of the build as well as native configuration, and this unique combination is represented by a string called a runtime version. A remote update targets one runtime version, indicating that only binaries with a matching runtime version can load the remote update.
```

In the first sentence, the string is already unique since the combination is unique, so we can avoid repetition.

> Each time you build a binary for your app it includes the native code present at the time of the build as well as native configuration, and this unique combination is represented by a unique string called a runtime version. A remote update targets one runtime version, indicating that only binaries with a matching runtime version can load the remote update.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each time you build a binary for your app it includes the native code and configuration present at the time of the build. This unique combination is represented by a string called a runtime version. A remote update targets a runtime version, indicating that only binaries with a matching runtime version can load the remote update.
```

<Collapsible summary="Manual configuration">

The runtime version can be managed manually by setting the string value in the config field.

```json
{
  "expo": {
    "runtimeVersion": "<runtime_version_string>"
  }
}
```

</Collapsible>

<Collapsible summary = "Automatic configuration using runtime version policies">

Runtime version policies derive the runtime version from another piece of information already present in your project. They can be set in the [`runtimeVersion`](/versions/latest/config/app/#runtimeversion) config field as follows:

```json
{
  "expo": {
    "runtimeVersion": {
      "policy": "<policy_name>"
    }
  }
}
```

Available policy types:

<Collapsible summary="appVersion">

The `"appVersion"` policy is provided for projects with that wish to define their runtime compatibility based on the app version.

For example, in a project that has the following in its app config:

```json
{
  "expo": {
    "runtimeVersion": {
      "policy": "appVersion"
    },
    "version": "1.0.0",
    "ios": {
      "buildNumber": "1"
    },
    "android": {
      "versionCode": 1
    }
  }
}
```

> The `"appVersion"` policy will set the runtime version to the project's current `"version"` property. The runtime version for the Android and iOS builds and any updates would be in this case `"1.0.0"`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `"appVersion"` policy will set the runtime version to the project's current `"version"` property. In this case, the runtime version for the Android and iOS builds and any updates would be `"1.0.0"`.
```

This policy is great for projects that contain custom native code and that update the `"version"` field after every public release. To submit an app, the app stores require an updated native version number for each submitted build, which makes this policy convenient if you want to be sure that every version installed on user devices has a different runtime version.

> When using this policy, you need to manually update `"version"` field in app config every time there is a public release, but for Play Store's Internal Test Track and the App Store's TestFlight uploads, you can rely on `"autoIncrement"` option in **eas.json** to [manage versions for you](../build-reference/app-versions/#remote-version-source).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When using this policy, you need to manually update `"version"` field in the app config every time there is a public release, but for Play Store's Internal Test Track and the App Store's TestFlight uploads, you can rely on `"autoIncrement"` option in **eas.json** to [manage versions for you](/build-reference/app-versions/#remote-version-source).
```

</Collapsible>

<Collapsible summary="nativeVersion">

> The `"nativeVersion"` policy is provided for projects with that wish to define their runtime compatibility based on the project's current `"version"` and `"buildNumber"` (iOS) or `"versionCode"` (Android) properties.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `"nativeVersion"` policy is provided for projects that wish to define their runtime compatibility based on the project's current `"version"` and `"versionCode"` (Android) or `"buildNumber"` (iOS) properties.
```

Let's update the platform order for consistency.

For example, in a project that has the following in its app config:

```json
{
  "expo": {
    "runtimeVersion": {
      "policy": "nativeVersion"
    },
    "version": "1.0.0",
    "ios": {
      "buildNumber": "1"
    },
    "android": {
      "versionCode": 1
    }
  }
}
```

The runtime version for the Android and iOS builds and any updates would be the combination of `"[version]([buildNumber|versionCode])"`, which in this case would be `"1.0.0(1)"`.

> This policy is great for projects that contain custom native code and that update the native version numbers (`"buildNumber"` for iOS and `"versionCode"` for Android) for each build. To submit an app, the app stores require an updated native version number for each submitted build, which makes this policy convenient if you want to be sure that every app uploaded to the Play Store's Internal Test Track and the App Store's TestFlight distribution tools has a different `runtimeVersion`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This policy is great for projects containing custom native code that update the native version numbers (`"buildNumber"` for iOS and `"versionCode"` for Android) for each build. To submit an app, the app stores require an updated native version number for each submitted build, which makes this policy convenient if you want to be sure that every app uploaded to the Play Store's Internal Test Track and the App Store's TestFlight distribution tools has a different `runtimeVersion`.
```

> It's important to know that this policy does require management of the native version numbers manually between each build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's important to know that this policy requires management of the native version numbers manually between each build.
```

Also, if you select a different native version between Android and iOS, you'll end up with builds and updates with separate runtime versions.

</Collapsible>

<Collapsible summary="fingerprint">

> > **warning** The `fingerprint` runtime policy is still in beta as of SDK 51 and not yet considered stable. Use may result in unexpected behavior.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **warning** The `fingerprint` runtime policy is still in beta since SDK 51 and not yet considered stable. Use may result in unexpected behavior.
```

Since this doc will be latest with SDK 52, let's update the callout above.
